carousel
A carousel or carrousel, merry-go-round, roundabout, or hurdy-gurdy is a type of amusement ride consisting of a rotating circular platform with seats for riders.


Ferris wheel
A Ferris wheel is an amusement ride consisting of a rotating upright wheel with multiple passenger-carrying components attached to the rim in such a way that as the wheel turns, they are kept upright, usually by gravity.

Log flume
Log flumes are amusement rides consisting of a water flume and hollow logs or boats. Passengers sit in the logs, which are propelled along the flume by the flow of water. The ride usually culminates with a rapid descent and splashdown into a body of water, which may happen more than once.

pirate ship
A pirate ship is a type of amusement ride based on pirate ships, consisting of an open, seated gondola which swings back and forth, subjecting the rider to various levels of angular momentum. A variant where the riders must pull on ropes to swing the ride is known as a swing boat.
 

Scrambler
The Scrambler, Twist, Twister, Cha Cha, Sizzler, or Merry Mixer, is an amusement ride in which suspended riders spinning in cars experience centrifugal force, while spinning along two separate axes. Riders are seated in small carriages clustered together and connected by beams at the top to a central point.

Bumper cars
Bumper cars or dodgems are the generic names for a type of flat amusement ride consisting of multiple small electrically powered cars which draw power from the floor and/or ceiling, and which are turned on and off remotely by an operator. Bumper cars were not intended to be bumped, hence the original name "Dodgem."

Dark ride
A dark ride or ghost train is an indoor amusement ride on which passengers aboard guided vehicles travel through specially lit scenes that typically contain animation, sound, music and special effects. Appearing as early as the 19th century, such exhibits include tunnels of love, scary themes and interactive stories.

Dare 2 Drop
Gear up for an extreme thrill adventure. Because, this wild ride will shoot you like a rocket in the sky in a matter of seconds. Before you can even soak in the view or try and compose yourself, you will experience a total free fall from the height of 132 feet.
Mind you, when you're shooting vertically at the maximum speed of 73 km/hr and super G forces, a crazy blood rush is the least you can expect.

Tilt-A-Whirl
Tilt-A-Whirl (plural Tilt-A-Whirls) A spinning-platform amusement ride that exposes its riders to unpredictable combinations of tilting, spinning and horizontal movement. (by extension, figurative) Any fast-paced, unpredictable and disorienting experience.


Gravitron
Riders lean against these panels, which are angled back. As the ride rotates, the rider experiences a centrifugal force pointing outward from the ride's center. This force, along with the slant in the walls, allows riders to be completely supported by the walls, without their feet touching the ground.

Frisbee
The Frisbee is a type of pendulum amusement ride featuring a circular gondola that rotates as it swings back and forth. Riders are seated on the gondola facing inward or outward, depending on the model.

Round Up
Round Up is an amusement ride consisting of a circular horizontal platform with a vertical cage-like wall around the edge.

Rattlesnake Rapids
For a top-notch family rafting ride, look to Rattlesnake Rapids at Lagoon water park, just outside Salt Lake City. Hop aboard a raft and you’ll find twists, turns and soaking waterfalls. Be prepared: everyone in the raft will get wet before this ride comes to an end. The rapids are gentle enough for little ones, but pack enough of a punch to be enjoyed by teens and adult riders.

Leap of Faith
If you’re looking for a water slide that drops 6 stories before plunging you into a shark-infested lagoon, take a ride on Leap of Faith at Aquaventure, part of Atlantis resort in the Bahamas. After sliding out of a Mayan temple, keep your eyes open as you quickly zip through a clear tunnel surrounded by sharks before finishing up with a big splash.

Quadzilla
If it’s not enough to race against just 1 slider, hop on a mat and slide head first down Quadzilla, a 4-lane racing slide at Noah’s Ark in Wisconsin Dells, WI. Twist, turn and speed through tunnels before splashing down and discovering which rider was first to the finish.

Mammoth
Grab a seat on a 6-person round boat before screaming down the Mammoth, the world’s longest water coaster. This popular ride at Holiday World & Splashin’ Safari in Santa Claus, IN, takes riders down 7 stories, going forward, backward and all around before splashing down at the end of the ride. This is definitely a ride to brave as a family.

 Zuma ZOOMa
 Slip, slide and do a 360-degree loop-de-loop on the Zuma ZOOMa water slide at Cowabunga Bay outside Las Vegas. Riders start in a launch capsule before the bottom drops out and they plunge more than 7 stories on this high-speed water ride. Zuma ZOOMa is best suited for those with a high thrill threshold.